David Thomson: Hey, Jordan, can you hear me okay?
David Thomson: Hello!
David Thomson: Hello, Sandra?
David Thomson: Can you hear me?
David Thomson: Hello. Good evening.
David Thomson: I can't hear.
David Thomson: I hope my, audio's working okay.
David Thomson: Let's see…
David Thomson: Hello!
David Thomson: Alright, I think my microphone's working.
David Thomson: I could be wrong.
David Thomson: Good evening, everyone.
Shehanaz Khan Sharifa: Good evening.
David Thomson: I'm glad you couldn't hear me. I was worried you couldn't hear.
David Thomson: Good evening.
David Thomson: Can you see the screen that I'm sharing?
David Thomson: It says, study session, August 26, 2025.
David Thomson: I'm sharing a PowerPoint.
David Thomson: Hello, Sherry?
Sheri Smith: Hey, dude!
David Thomson: Hey, good evening to you.
Sheri Smith: Good evening.
David Thomson: Alright.
David Thomson: We'll give it a couple more minutes to get started, if that's okay.
David Thomson: I think Jordan dropped.
David Thomson: Can you see the screen I'm sharing? The PowerPoint? Good, good.
David Thomson: Interesting.
David Thomson: I'm on my Mac, I still haven't quite figured out Zoom on my new Mac.
David Thomson: Good evening.
David Thomson: This is one of our shorter study sessions, but that gives more time for,
Trista Lauzon: Fantastic.
David Thomson: Questions.
David Thomson: Yeah, I hear ya.
David Thomson: Gotcha.
David Thomson: Anyway, this is one of those shorter ones, but it gives more time for questions and discussion if needed, but…
David Thomson: Or give you a little bit of time back.
David Thomson: Alright, we'll probably get started. I think it's got 7.03 here, Eastern Time here.
David Thomson: I know some people might.
David Thomson: Might come in a little bit later. And we also have the recording of it.
David Thomson: Sherry, I know,
David Thomson: with Jordan out of here, is there anything you wanted to mention before we kick off?
Sheri Smith: It's the only thing, thanks everyone for joining. David's been doing this awesome study series, and we're gonna keep these rolling out every month, so… yeah, thank you, David.
David Thomson: Oh, my pleasure, yeah, … I'm, really glad to do these, I enjoy these, and …
David Thomson: It's also good for my professional development, keeping my
David Thomson: my… my CBAP renews again this…
David Thomson: this December, so volunteering to do these sessions is… also helps me, very similar to anyone who's studying for that. You know, once you do that, you still have to
David Thomson: do it. So, teaching, and going over these topics. I love doing these, too, because, you know, quite honestly, I learn something every time I talk about these, or I… or remember… it helps me remember something that I should be doing on a day-to-day basis or something, so… so welcome to this night's session.
Trista Lauzon: Test, test, test, test.
David Thomson: Trista, we can.
Sheri Smith: I hear you, Tristan.
David Thomson: hear ya?
David Thomson: Gotcha.
David Thomson: Hopefully you can tear us.
Trista Lauzon: So….
David Thomson: But, …
David Thomson: Yeah, let's… let's dive in. Yes, as Sharon mentioned, we are doing these study sessions. You know, this… this month.
David Thomson: Well, a couple months ago, we started back at the beginning, we did,
David Thomson: We did a session on, certification overview. If you're interested in business analysis certifications, we talked mostly about the IIBA certification, because we're the IABA chapter here in East Tennessee, but we also talked a little bit about the Project Management Institute's,
David Thomson: you know, PMBA certification. And that, that's a really good… we talked about that to get going on people who were interested. A lot of people, you know, are interested in not only just learning a little bit more about business analysis and the way that Babock is,
David Thomson: is set up, and, the great information that's in that, but also, you know, interested in studying for… for those certifications. And, one thing with these study sessions is, having gone through, through it, I've…
David Thomson: I've learned, a little bit. I've talked to a lot of other people that have been through the certification exams as well, so I try to plug in little… little tips and tricks, or a study guide,
David Thomson: Tips that you… that you might be helpful as you go along, so… …
David Thomson: My name is David Thompson, and … I've been, …
David Thomson: teaching these sessions for a few years now, I…
David Thomson: I live and work in Knoxville, Tennessee. I'm the past president of the East Tennessee chapter of IIBA.
David Thomson: And, I've… as you can see on the screen, I've done a few certifications for IIBA, most notably the CBAP and the CPOA, Certified Product Ownership Analysis, AAC, which is the Agile Analysis Certification, and I've got a couple still, that are from the Scrum Alliance.
David Thomson: I think I have to repay those, renew those again this year, but yeah, the Certified Scrum Master and Certified, Scrum Product Owner.
David Thomson: But, …
David Thomson: Yeah, so I don't really love taking certification exams, but I've got a little bit of experience doing that, so I'm happy to give a little information about that. I will tell you, as I mentioned before.
David Thomson: We… we started off with a certification overview a couple months ago, and then we started right at the beginning of the BADOC, where we talked about, business analysis concepts and key
David Thomson: Key Concepts, as well as BAPM, which is Business Analysis, Planning, and Monitoring, the first
David Thomson: knowledge area that is listed in the, in the, in the Babock. …
David Thomson: This month, August, we are talking about elicitation and collaboration, which is the next, knowledge area in the Babak
David Thomson: planning for September, I should say, I'm getting my months mixed up. In September, we're planning to do a session on requirements lifecycle Management, or LCM, as they call it.
David Thomson: And that's the… even the next chap… next, knowledge area in the… In the pavoc.
David Thomson: But in October, we're going to take a little bit of a detour and talk about product ownership analysis.
David Thomson: So anyone who might be interested in either working more with product ownership.
David Thomson: In your organization, or… or just being part of a team that has a product owner, or maybe interested in getting that, CPOA certification, that's what we'll cover in…
David Thomson: our October session, so look for that.
David Thomson: So yeah, let's dive into this topic.
David Thomson: …
David Thomson: the Babak, is the basis for everything we'll be talking tonight. This is a slide I reuse on all my studies, because, study sessions, because definitely the Babak is what we're basing our discussions on tonight. The Babak and a lot of
David Thomson: From a… from a perspective of IIBA and the business analysis communicate… community, and especially if you're interested in
David Thomson: IABA certification. The Babock is, is really,
David Thomson: what you should put your mindset into. I've also supplemented, some of the things I've learned when I was doing my CBAP certification. The Watermark Learning CBAP Certification Guide is a really great guide. It helps to kind of distill and
David Thomson: And, restate a lot of the topics, has a lot of great examples in it of what's in the BABOC. Definitely is not a replacement for the BABOC, but it is a good tool to utilize if you are planning, especially just to take either the CCBA or CBAP certification exams.
David Thomson: So…
David Thomson: I show this slide by way of telling you that some of the things you'll, you'll see tonight, well, definitely the stuff from the Babak,
David Thomson: is what we're going over, the topics, but, you know, enhanced and some study tips from the, from the watermark CPAP certification, so…
David Thomson: Let's dive in. Elicitation and collaboration. I think I say this about every knowledge area, it's one of my favorites. You know, when a lot of people think about business analysis and what business analysts do, they… they say, oh, they gather requirements. You know, yeah.
David Thomson: Gathering is not always so easy. Sometimes it is easy. Oh yeah, there…
David Thomson: they're already documented somewhere, or it's just a matter of going out and picking them up, because they're laying around. That rarely happens. But a lot of time, it's elicitation. If you look at the definition of elicitation, it's the act of
David Thomson: Drawing out, or bringing forth
David Thomson: emotions, opinions, facts. A lot of times, requirements are… are full of emotions, or full of opinions, and full of…
David Thomson: facts, and you need to help, help, working with your stakeholders, help define what the real, requirements are. You need to elicit, you know, what… what is needed to be done. So it's really rarely, rarely a matter of gathering requirements. So,
David Thomson: Elicitation and collaboration, is Chapter 4 in the Babak, and that really means something, and it's not just a reference to help you find things, but when you are looking at how things are laid out, you'll see that a little bit more as we dig into the inputs, tasks, and outputs.
David Thomson: A lot of people call it ENC.
David Thomson: Because elicitation and collaboration is a mouthful, so you might hear people refer to ENC.
David Thomson: yeah, the big, the big thing about elicitation and collaboration is helping you to get information from stakeholders and verify the results. It's not just a matter of
David Thomson: Getting the information, but also working with those stakeholders, to identify what their desirable outcome is, and verifying those results. And we'll talk a little bit more about what some of those tasks are.
David Thomson: Key thing, especially the bad box says, is elicitation could be formal or informal.
David Thomson: You know, it could be a matter of a… of a survey.
David Thomson: Or it can be just a matter of a conversation. There's a lot of different techniques that we'll talk about that can be used for elicitation.
David Thomson: And elicitation is an ongoing activity.
David Thomson: I've been on several projects where somebody says, you know, when are we going to know all the requirements?
David Thomson: You know, that's…
David Thomson: You know, there's some point you feel like, well, they're fewer and far between, but the more you… especially if you're in a technology project.
David Thomson: The more feedback you get.
David Thomson: And the way a lot of projects are today with, have worked in an agile, an agile, method, where you're building something very quickly, getting feedback, making changes, building a minimal, minimal viable product.
David Thomson: And then adding on to it as time goes by, you know, you're kind of eliciting the whole way through.
David Thomson: Let's see, did I jump way far ahead? I jumped way far ahead. Sorry, that's me and my happy mouse here.
David Thomson: So yeah, collaboration.
David Thomson: I think we all collaborate every day, that's a key part of what we do. Working with someone to produce or create a result, these are… these are in orange here, these are definitions from the… from the Babak. So, these are key to understand, particularly if you're thinking about studying. These very well could be.
David Thomson: Things you want to know, …
David Thomson: Deepen your heart, if you're planning to take, a certification exam.
David Thomson: …
David Thomson: thinking about certification exam, if you're taking… thinking about the CCBA exam, about 20% of the… last I checked, at least, about 20% of the CCBA exam
David Thomson: is… About elastication and collaboration. About 26 questions. And then the CBAP exam, it's about 12%.
David Thomson: Obviously, the CBAP exam covers a lot more. There are fewer questions on the CBAP exam, if you ever looked at that. There are fewer questions on the CBAP exam, but there are… there are a lot more intense case study type questions on the CBAP exam, so…
David Thomson: …
David Thomson: This kind of helps you when you, when you look at the bigger picture of all the topics that are covered, and this is… this is updated at IABA's website, if you're interested in taking a certification exam. They'll tell you the percentage of the different knowledge areas, that the exams cover, approximately.
David Thomson: So, just something to keep in mind.
David Thomson: Let's see. So, this is a… this is a part where we have a little bit of, participation.
David Thomson: And, … You know, I just, … If you could… Either via chat, Or, …
David Thomson: You know, just open your mic and give some feedback on some elicitation techniques that you may use in your current role.
David Thomson: Any thoughts on that?
David Thomson: And I alluded to a couple earlier, so it could be, like, surveys, or interviews, or focus groups, things like that. Any thoughts on that?
David Thomson: Because there's a million different ways, not just the ones that are in the Babot.
David Thomson: Sure.
Sheri Smith: Yeah, I just pointed out in the chat that, Trista said workshop, and then the amicus said cervix.
David Thomson: Very good, those are great. Those are great ones, yeah. Very good, thank you.
David Thomson: Yeah.
David Thomson: I'll bring my next slide up that has some of those, listed here, hopefully. Here's just an example. …
David Thomson: Interviews, definitely. Surveys right there in the middle, that's a great one. Workshops, you know, we call them right here. Also, a lot of people call focus groups workshops. Focus groups are a little more formal. Workshops are always great. I have workshops, you know, I say, hey, we need to have a workshop, and people get all
David Thomson: worried, because I think the word work is in that, which is what we do every day, right, Mark? But, different things like data mining, that's a elicitation technique.
David Thomson: …
David Thomson: Obviously I mentioned interviews, just going and talking to somebody. They could be a formal interview, it could be more just a casual, hey, tell me what you think about
David Thomson: let's say… and forgive me, I always use IT.
David Thomson: references, because, my background is IT business analysis, but, yeah, tell us about this new system we're developing. What are some of the things that you really think are key there? And, you know, for example, just to… just to see what, the requirements are from… from someone. Document analysis, that's a good one.
David Thomson: You know, for example, there could be, some documentation, that was… that was written
David Thomson: About a… maybe a system again, that, you know, understanding what the requirements were for that, initially. Maybe the system is, maybe doing some
David Thomson: investigation into why people aren't using the system, and maybe they're not… haven't been trained on it. You can do some analysis with any documentation.
David Thomson: Prototyping is one as well, where they're like, hey, let's… a lot of teams do this nowadays, it's like, let's just… let's put something together real quick and dirty.
David Thomson: And, build a solution. Maybe it's a product, maybe you're building, you know.
David Thomson: a rough version of what you think might be it. Let's see… let's get some feedback on this and see what people think of it.
David Thomson: see if it actually works. It could be, like, a proof of concept or something.
David Thomson: mind mapping. You know, let's get on a board, and maybe sometimes you use a whiteboard, or a flow charting software, like Figma, or, you know, any of these charting
David Thomson: options, or maybe just even PowerPoint, or just a whiteboard, or Blackboard, or post-it notes on a… on a wall, even. Put some things out there.
David Thomson: to go through it and kind of map out what you're looking at. Observation is a good one. You know, sometimes it takes, whether it's either active observation or maybe some passive observation.
David Thomson: I worked for a company, that, did a lot of that observation, you know, and say, well, it was a grocery company, and there were people, for example, the way they stocked shelves, people would
David Thomson: Monitor them to see how they're stocking the shelves, and try to figure out
David Thomson: different process improvements of how they're… they're doing that, and they did that without necessarily engaging the person, just letting them do their job and just watching them, and making sure, you know, and taking note of how they're… how they're doing things. Observation is a really great elicitation technique.
David Thomson: … process modeling.
David Thomson: Sometimes you work with some folks that
David Thomson: they can talk about their process, but they maybe not… haven't thought of it in a… in a point-to-point, end-to-end kind of way, so sometimes that is very helpful with your stakeholders to say, let's talk about this current process that you do.
David Thomson: … Modeling out a process with just a few boxes, you know, it doesn't have to be super formal.
David Thomson: allows them to visualize, and maybe… maybe have the opportunity to… to identify any kind of issues, or bottlenecks, or redundancies in the process, you know. And that, I feel like process modeling
David Thomson: can be kind of like the starting point for process improvement. And a lot of times, the requirements or, the information that's elicited from just a simple exercise like that.
David Thomson: can be really a revelation for your stakeholders, so it's something to keep in mind as well. Just think, let's… I don't think I quite get it. Sometimes it's okay to kind of play
David Thomson: play like you don't understand it fully, and sometimes I just really admit, I… I don't understand fully until I've kind of modeled something out. That's helpful, both for you and the stakeholders. So that's… those are good techniques. Oops, I'm starting to draw on my slide here.
David Thomson: Business rules analysis.
David Thomson: Similar to process modeling, so let me… help me understand these… these business rules, you know, maybe taking the business rules and putting them on a spreadsheet, for example, and writing them out, and, you know, the different circumstances will help you understand scenarios better, and from that, be able to… to say, yes, this is, …
David Thomson: Here's where we can do some improvements, or this is definitely something we'll need when we move on into our future state.
David Thomson: For example.
David Thomson: Event storming, this is kind of leftover, this is a little bit older slide. Event storming is more, of a…
David Thomson: it's kind of very, very similar to process modeling, and very similar to mind mapping. It's a technique that a lot of folks… we did a couple years ago, I think it was, we did a dedicated chapter meeting about this, where
David Thomson: Event storming is really Getting a piece of paper, pasting it to the wall.
David Thomson: And getting a bunch of post-it notes.
David Thomson: And, …
David Thomson: thinking through a system, and all the events that are generated, and how they link together, and processing them, and you kind of… they call it storming, because you're really
David Thomson: very, very, very close to just throwing, post-it notes on a board and then organizing them. It helps to… it's very revealing to be able to
David Thomson: To think through things on how events are triggered, and especially if you're doing something like system-to-system integration.
David Thomson: or handoffs between systems, or boundary systems. It really is helpful to do a technique like that. I would encourage you to look at it.
David Thomson: I did make a note that that's not listed in the Babock. Babock has 50 total techniques, of which many, many, many are useful in elicitation and collaboration, but…
David Thomson: Something to keep in mind, but…
David Thomson: It's important, as I mentioned, if you take an exam, to understand all the techniques and when to use them.
David Thomson: So…
David Thomson: That's, that's a key. Well, thanks for your, input on… on that. Let's dig into the details about elicitation and collaboration. And you'll see this, if you're familiar with the Babak et al, every knowledge area, you know.
David Thomson: As mentioned before, you have business analysis, planning and monitoring, solicitation and collaboration requirements, lifecycle management.
David Thomson: Solution, evaluation. All, all the, all the techniques, all the knowledge areas.
David Thomson: start with, kind of this format, where you list out the inputs for that particular, knowledge area, the tasks that are done within that knowledge area, and then the outputs expected. Sometimes these are
David Thomson: Are really easy to see.
David Thomson: When you think about it. So, for elicitation and collaboration, some of the inputs you need in order to do elicitation and collaboration is an understanding of what the needs are. So…
David Thomson: And, you know, what are the… what are we doing here? Is this an initiative? Is this a project? What am I… what am I trying to find out? What is the… what does the team have a need for?
David Thomson: You also want to know what your business analysis information is. What… how are we gonna… how are we gonna,
David Thomson: Approach this from a business analysis perspective.
David Thomson: what our stakeholder engagement approaches? That's something that also could be an input for
David Thomson: For this… these tasks and illustration collaboration.
David Thomson: You know, one of the things you do in business analysis, planning, and monitoring, the previous knowledge area, is do a stakeholder matrix, and do a stakeholder engagement,
David Thomson: review.
David Thomson: And, you know, find out who your stakeholders are, how best to engage them.
David Thomson: And then, a business analysis performance assessment.
David Thomson: On… this will help you determine whether the elicitation and collaboration you're doing are, is up to par with what the expectations are.
David Thomson: So… And it's funny, …
David Thomson: you know, these are pretty logical, when you think about the task. You're prepared to do a solicitation.
David Thomson: You do the elicitation, you conduct the elicitation, …
David Thomson: Then you confirm your elicitation results.
David Thomson: And then you communicate your, information.
David Thomson: And then you manage the stakeholder collaboration, so…
David Thomson: Maybe not totally logical in that necessarily order, but definitely, as you can see, each of these has a number on them. 4.1, the 4, as I mentioned before, Chapter 4 in the Babak is… is a list station, collaboration. That just helps you identify
David Thomson: where these are. If you're studying for, one of the exams, it's good to know these. These help you align, the inputs to ask and outputs, but…
David Thomson: We'll go through each one of these, so, but the outputs of each of those, preparing for a list station is you'll have a plan. If you do the conduct elastation, you'll have some unconfirmed elicitation results.
David Thomson: And then when you confirm your elicitation results, you'll have confirmed elicitation results.
David Thomson: Pretty logical. When you communicate your business analysis information, you will have… your output is
David Thomson: the information you communicated. And then, when you're managing your stakeholder engagement, your output will be stakeholder engagement. So, you know, it's a little bit of a stretch to think… think through these. These are really pretty simple when you think about it, but…
David Thomson: … Yeah, so…
David Thomson: If there are not any questions, we'll just start digging into each one of these tasks, and they're not that many, but…
David Thomson: … So, … let's see…
David Thomson: Preparing for elicitation. You know, that's… that's definitely something you really want to… if you have… a lot of times as business analysts, we're just thrown onto a project. Say, hey, can you go talk to this team and see what they need for this project? We just get thrown in.
David Thomson: And I always advise business analysts I work with
David Thomson: Who, who asked for my advice? Yeah, I say, hey.
David Thomson: sometimes it's good just to say, hold on a minute, let's… let's go back to square one and think about what we're doing, why we're doing it, you know, the business analysis, planning and monitoring is really a good key first step. You know, who are our stakeholders, what are we doing?
David Thomson: That helps. Just like preparing for the solicitation, hopefully you've been able to do some planning
David Thomson: But you're… you're really…
David Thomson: Have a good understanding of what you're trying to elicit, you know, what you're going to cover and what not to cover.
David Thomson: and then that helps to keep, you know, the exercise focused on what you really need to focus on. You're not wasting a lot of time. You're not wasting your stakeholders' time, either.
David Thomson: … Figure out maybe some possible techniques. You might think, oh gosh.
David Thomson: I've got to interview 500 people, that's impossible. Maybe I'll do a survey.
David Thomson: Or, you know, there's just 3 people, maybe I could just get us all in a conference room for an hour or two, and we can hack through this, and … well, I shouldn't use the word hack, but we can knock through this and … and figure this out. Or maybe it's, you know, something, gosh.
David Thomson: we need an off-site where we're really focusing, you know, using a focus group, having a real good focused workshop on what we're trying to accomplish here. And, you know, think about that. Think about, like.
David Thomson: who's gonna participate, what the agenda should be, whether it's off-site, on-site, if it's through Zoom, or Teams, or whatever. Maybe think about also your stakeholders and,
David Thomson: You know.
David Thomson: Maybe if there are folks that are remote offshore, in Europe, in South America, wherever, they might be… could be time zone considerations. So, thinking about that as much as possible, you could
David Thomson: Feel the need to do more than… more than one or two, or even more. …
David Thomson: Elicitation techniques, maybe a combination to make sure the teams are covered.
David Thomson: So, and you get the stakeholders, the correct stakeholders engaged at the right time.
David Thomson: It could also be that you, say, hey, we're gonna…
David Thomson: We're gonna do the East Coast, tomorrow morning, and the West Coast tomorrow afternoon, you know, break it up, and then maybe find an opportunity to get people together. Whatever that works, but it's key to plan the logistics, do that preparation.
David Thomson: Identify any kind of supporting materials that you need. I like to… I have a teammate that calls, I need a pre-read on this before this meeting. A lot of people don't do their homework before they have a meeting.
David Thomson: And it's Keith.
David Thomson: prepare them and say, hey, really need you to look through this document, or really need you to think about this, or come with this mindset, and be prepared so that we can really dig into this. You know, how many people have…
David Thomson: Had a meeting and invited some folks, and you get there, and people are like, why are we here? What are we doing? Oh, okay. Obviously, have an agenda, you know, make sure you're prepping those stakeholders. Need you really to participate in here, really…
David Thomson: You know, whether it's, hey, don't bring your laptop, or don't open your laptop, or really don't look at your phone, we need your active participation.
David Thomson: We need you to review this beforehand.
David Thomson: Those are keys to preparing your teammates and your stakeholders for
David Thomson: for elicitation. A little bit of that preparation goes a long way to make sure you're not, you know.
David Thomson: Continuing to have to go to the well and ask them for more information.
David Thomson: So… That, that's definitely key to prepping.
David Thomson: Conducting the elicitation here.
David Thomson: The Babak tells us there are three types of elicitation. There's collaborative, where folks are working together, you're working directly with the stakeholder. There could be you're doing research, as I mentioned before, document analysis is something maybe you're digging into
David Thomson: to, … To figure out… maybe… maybe you're looking at, You know, what…
David Thomson: what some products are on the market, how they might impact the way your group is working, what some of our options are. Maybe you're doing a little bit of that research on the front end, doing some analysis before you bring the stakeholders in.
David Thomson: Experiments could be, as I mentioned before, proof of concepts. Hey, let's, we're gonna build this
David Thomson: Let's say we're gonna build up a physical product.
David Thomson: let's mock it up and see what it looks like, you know. This will be a prototype. See how that works.
David Thomson: …
David Thomson: You know, maybe you work for a bicycle company, and hey, we're gonna try a new kind of bicycle with, 4 tires instead of 3 or 2, you know.
David Thomson: Whatever… whatever you need to do, you know, experiments, those, those are ways to conduct elicitation.
David Thomson: And get feedback, … It's real key that the BA is there to facilitate.
David Thomson: And be an enabler, really, for the team. Getting them what they… making sure that you have all the materials you need, whether it's post-it notes, or, you know, the right location. It's your…
David Thomson: Actively working with the team to make sure that folks are participating.
David Thomson: and everybody's opinion's getting heard, and that…
David Thomson: you know, if you're staying on topic and moving along, that's key. You know, I think a lot of what we do as business analysis professionals is facilitation. You know, we're not there to necessarily
David Thomson: You know.
David Thomson: you know, create the requirements, per se. We're there to help guide the team into coming to that revelation and facilitating the team to make those decisions.
David Thomson: And then, I like to say this as well, and the Babak advises us as well, to make sure you get another BA, get help, because you can't be everywhere. If you can't get more than… more than one person, they don't have to be BAs, but,
David Thomson: to help capture and record and make sure the team is engaged. It's always helpful to have multiple
David Thomson: Folks there that are not necessarily stakeholders, but there to help facilitate, and so…
David Thomson: you can't be expected to facilitate and take notes at the same time. Luckily, we have technology nowadays that helps us to record and transcribe things that are said, but without that context, a lot of times those transcriptions are
David Thomson: Are not usable, and sometimes the audio doesn't work real… real well, especially if you're in a big room.
David Thomson: And so having someone there that is dedicated to keep track of the
David Thomson: Of the parking lot, as they say, you know, any topics that are… that are maybe not necessarily covered that day, anything that needs to be followed up on, or any of the specific revelations or requirements that come out of that tax is really critically important.
David Thomson: So that's conducting the elicitation.
David Thomson: And then… Yeah, and this is really key.
David Thomson: I say this about every slide, pretty much, but… sorry.
David Thomson: The, confirming those elicitation results. I've… I've always…
David Thomson: I've done this myself in the past. I've… okay, thanks guys, it's great, I got this information, and I go off, and they don't hear from me for a while. I've been guilty of that in the past, and I hope I never do it again, but…
David Thomson: You know, it's real key to say, hey, we had this conversation, we spent this 2 hours in a workshop, together in a room, this is what we came up with.
David Thomson: Can you help me validate this is what we came up with? You know, did I miss anything? Did I get anything wrong? And your notes, you know, it's very important to say, these are the… these are the requirements that came out of this elicitation exercise. These are the keynotes, these are the follow-ups.
David Thomson: did I miss anything? You know, and give the stakeholders the opportunity to To, confirm those results.
David Thomson: They might say, no, no, no, hey, we didn't say that, we said this. You're like, oh, okay, I missed that, sorry.
David Thomson: you know, I got this quote here from the Babox on elicitation discrepancies. Variation in elicitation results are often uncovered when modeling our documenting requirements. That's from the RAD Chapter 7, Requirements Analysis and Design Definition.
David Thomson: It's… it's the… you know, that… that comes back to bite you. If you're… if you're doing…
David Thomson: You know, if you're starting to do… finalize your requirements analysis, and you're starting to define a design.
David Thomson: For, for the implementation, or the, or the,
David Thomson: Other project, or whatever, whatever it is you're working on.
David Thomson: Be like, oh crap, that… that… that wasn't actually, that wasn't…
David Thomson: validated. You know, we just heard that. I thought we heard that. Didn't we hear that? You know, and that's not good. You need to make sure that your stakeholders are signing off on them, and they agree with the results that you found. So if you do this at that illustration and collaboration phase.
David Thomson: That will serve you well as you get further on into your business analysis. So, those are some key things.
David Thomson: And part of that is actually communicating, you know, you're confirming, but you're also communicating. Whatever it is, whatever ways you want to communicate it. You know, you can do it formally or informally, whether it's
David Thomson: Let's get everybody together, we're gonna go through what we found when we did our, whenever we did our workshop. Here are the requirements that we heard out of it.
David Thomson: You know, you're sharing it with them. Maybe you're sending it around in an email. Maybe you have a business requirements document, a BRD,
David Thomson: This is what we have. There's a formal document. Maybe you have user stories where, you… that you've done, depending on how your team or your… your company, your project approaches things. It could be in multiple different ways. It's always good, though, to…
David Thomson: To have it in some form where it's… where it's formal, where people can share it, and look at it, and sign off on it.
David Thomson: And, you know, if there are any disagreements or any kind of discrepancies, that those can be understood and that it's communicated. So maybe you put this on a team site, or a file share on a server, somewhere where the team can look at it and collaborate. There's nothing really to hide.
David Thomson: Usually, you know, it could be more of a confidential project, but typically there's nothing to hide. You want to make sure all your stakeholders have a voice and are able to validate the information and make sure that it's in a place where everybody can take a look at it, so…
David Thomson: Communicating that information is a big, big part of it as well.
David Thomson: And then, you know, you've built a relationship by now with your stakeholders. You understood, if you've done your planning, you've identified who your stakeholders are.
David Thomson: Maybe you've identified, we talked about this last month when we talked about planning and business analysis planning. You've maybe identified some of their biases, some of their fears, some of their,
David Thomson: some of their, needs, specific needs for their… I mean, multiple stakeholders have different
David Thomson: different needs, different… when I think about biases, maybe they're like, well, I don't like, you know, I don't like Windows, systems. I like everything to be text-based, or I don't like anything that,
David Thomson: that is open to customers to come in and log in to our system. You know, for example, they may have… they may not…
David Thomson: May not…
David Thomson: really like some of the aspects of it. So, managing them, working with them, kind of, helping understand so that they manage their ex… manage their expectations on the… on the…
David Thomson: You know, making sure that you're understanding that they're being heard, that you're also communicating any other options for them.
David Thomson: You're communicating them into a way, that Oh.
David Thomson: That you're regularly touching base with them?
David Thomson: You know, I've worked with folks that are on the road, and they're very hard to get.
David Thomson: But always try to check in with them, make sure, hey, here's where we're at on this, just want to make sure that you have any questions, you know, maybe you've missed a few… they've missed a few meetings because they're busy, busy. You know, keeping them up to date, managing that relationship, just to try to keep it positive.
David Thomson: You know, it's a… it's an ongoing activity.
David Thomson: Making sure that the stakeholders can collaborate within… with themselves as well.
David Thomson: One of the things that says, poor stakeholder relationships can lead to failure to provide quality information, resistance to change, negative reactions and setbacks.
David Thomson: FBA information ultimately ignored.
David Thomson: So…
David Thomson: it's real important, I feel like, from a business analysis perspective, to make sure you're kind of cultivating that relationship with your stakeholders, and that you're communicating with them.
David Thomson: And raising any risks. Maybe you raise them to the project manager, to the project as a whole, saying, hey, I'm not hearing from this stakeholder, this stakeholder is really resistant to giving feedback.
David Thomson: …
David Thomson: you know, making sure that, you know, hopefully you don't get to that point, but making sure that you're really, you know, as I said, cultivating that relationship with your stakeholders, and that collaboration is a real key part of that.
David Thomson: So… So those are those key tasks under elicitation and collaboration.
David Thomson: …
David Thomson: And I usually start with the… this is the back end. This is the business analysis core concept model. We kind of talk about this. When you're thinking about elicitation and collaboration.
David Thomson: You can think about how that fits in the… in the business analysis core concept model. Backham is something you'll see at each of the knowledge areas in the BABOC.
David Thomson: And, there are, you know, these… Six points, that,
David Thomson: that show how, you know, that fits, and the next slide will give that information. I usually start with this. I don't know why I've had this at the end of this presentation, forgive me, but I…
David Thomson: It's, it's always good to, to think about this as you're going through these, but, if you want to… if you want… I… I don't have these sorted correctly, but, if you want to memorize these, the… the,
David Thomson: There's a… you can re… remember these… these key…
David Thomson: Core concept model, points by, sorting them in this order.
David Thomson: Value, success, solution, need… stakeholder.
David Thomson: Change, and context. Vision Success. That's a mnemonic. I… some people use that. I actually… I actually remembered that one when I took my CBAP, and it was helpful, but…
David Thomson: Nevertheless, if you look in the background, that'll… that'll tell you a little bit about that. But this is how we apply that… that business analysis core concept model to elicitation and collaboration.
David Thomson: And as you see here at ExamTip, if you're going to take one of these certification exams, CBAP or CCPA particularly, it's good to know how these apply to all of each, the knowledge areas in the BABAC, but…
David Thomson: By way of change, when you're thinking about, illustration and collaboration, the change part is you're identifying the change and the stakeholder concerns about it. You know, as I mentioned before, understanding what their… what their motivation is, what maybe their concerns are about the change, and realizing that this is a change.
David Thomson: to them, and sometimes the changes are difficult. You think about the need, you need to understand what the need is. Sometimes it's a matter of eliciting the need.
David Thomson: You know, sometimes the need can be super high level. Oh, we need this software. Why do we need this software? Oh, because it'll save us time. Okay, how will it save you time? You know, digging into the, you know, over to the…
David Thomson: five whys, you know, if you… if you ask why five times, you usually get to the root of the… of the… the issue. Well, we need to be first. Well, we need, you know, you get… you continue to dig down, to really understand the core needs. That really helps with elicitation.
David Thomson: The stakeholders, obviously, in this situation, you're really working with the stakeholders quite a bit, and that… in the core concept model.
David Thomson: You're involving them, you're managing their collaboration with them.
David Thomson: The value is you're, you're thinking about the value of the information that's gathered. You know, the info… when you do elicitation and collaboration, or any of these… any of these elicitation exercises, the… the… the data and the information you get
David Thomson: from that is really gold, if you think about it, hopefully gold. You know, that's very, very valuable to the success of the initiative that you're working on.
David Thomson: So, you know, what you're doing there is where you're not only identifying the value proposition for what the initiative needs, but the value to your stakeholders. And sometimes it's a matter of
David Thomson: communicating that value to your stakeholders as well. They may not quite see it.
David Thomson: And they may not see it.
David Thomson: From the perspective, maybe the larger perspective of the organization itself.
David Thomson: The context is…
David Thomson: how you're using those elicitation techniques to identify, as this is the context of the change, or, you know, in what context are we… are we utilizing this? Maybe, how are we slicing this, or how are we approaching this? What context is it?
David Thomson: And the solution itself.
David Thomson: You know, your… You're maybe not…
David Thomson: at this point, thinking about what the solution is. Hopefully, you're not solutioning as you're gathering requirements, but you're thinking about how the illustration
David Thomson: The information you've gotten through elicitation will be kind of formatted, prepping to help find the appropriate solutions, and maybe some solutions.
David Thomson: You know, a lot of us have been on projects where
David Thomson: the solution is in front of us, we need to find out how we're going to utilize the solution. We're going to implement the… this is our… our need is we need to implement this solution that my golf buddy sold me on at the golf match yesterday.
David Thomson: And then we have to find a need to justify it, so your job as business analyst is to justify this solution that, maybe the executive has purchased
David Thomson: Without really thinking through things.
David Thomson: that rarely happens. So… but anyway, yeah, this is… it's important to think about that back. If you look at, any of the other knowledge areas, and we go through this every time we go through one of these study sessions, specifically about a knowledge area, we'll review that. And it's good to know these days, especially if you're planning to take it.
David Thomson: a test.
David Thomson: Let's see, I'll move to this slide. That's all the real data we're covering tonight. Our next study session, as I mentioned, is requirements lifecycle Management. That'll be in September.
David Thomson: And we don't have a date on that yet, I don't think, but … watch for that. It'll… it's a good one. Requirements lifecycle management is…
David Thomson: One of my favorite. I say that about every one of them, but it's one of my favorite, knowledge areas. Definitely some great stuff to learn from there. So with that, anybody have any questions about elicitation and collaboration? Anybody want to talk about anything? Or maybe even, you know, some of their… some of your experience with elicitation and collaboration?
Sheri Smith: It was affirming for me hearing you talk about getting clarity, and still at that point, maybe there were miscommunications initially, because I guess whenever I get a elicitation, whenever I'm doing elicitation with stakeholders, and I miss something at the beginning stage, I guess I feel like I let them down, or like.
Sheri Smith: It's on me for not getting 100%, so…
Sheri Smith: It was just affirming to hear you talk about that.
David Thomson: Yeah, I think that… that happens to all of us, really, you know, it's like… and you… and you have to ask, do I have everything? And maybe your stakeholder's tired, they don't want to…
David Thomson: Now, I'm sure they don't look forward to… they want to move to the next meeting, or they want to get to the end of the day, and maybe they haven't thought through it, and so we can't… we can't put that on ourselves, but what we can do is just be available and be, you know, here's what I heard. Does this look good to you? A lot of times, you do have to put the onus on them to say.
David Thomson: You signed off on this, this is what we heard, you know, …
David Thomson: Our job isn't to, you know, dig up the world and find every little thing, you know? You need the help of the stakeholders. That's why cultivating that stakeholder relationship is really important. But yeah, confirming those results is really…
David Thomson: really key, and that's… I feel that is liberating, really, you know, rather than it being on you, and say, okay, this is what I heard, here you go, is this right? You know, you're the business expert, you know… this is your… this is your area of expertise. Am I missing anything? Do I understand this correctly?
David Thomson: …
David Thomson: I told somebody, about a year or two ago, I said, I like being a business analyst because I can be dumb. I can ask the dumb questions. I can say, wait, wait, I don't understand. And I… and I say that quite a… quite a bit, you know, I'm sorry, I don't understand this. Can you help me?
David Thomson: And, …
David Thomson: you know, it's okay to be that person that doesn't understand, because that helps you. A lot of times, when a stakeholder wants to talk you through that, they start thinking about it in a different way, and they think, well, you know, I've been doing this for 20 years, I know this as a stakeholder, this is my area of expertise.
David Thomson: I can't… I can't skip all these little things to help somebody understand. So, yeah, I think that that's a key part, is just making sure that you're…
David Thomson: hey, do I have a shrine? Am I missing anything? That's a key added step, so thank you for mentioning.
David Thomson: Any other thoughts?
Moe Raine: Yeah, hi, Dave. David, sorry. I had a question. Yeah, I was working on a project where
Moe Raine: I joined in the middle, and the requirements were already gathered, and we're going through analysis and design, and when we get to configuration walkthrough… so, the business comes with new business rules?
David Thomson: Because initially, when the requirements were gathered.
Moe Raine: They were thinking or looking at things from how the system functions now, but then when they have a better view of how the system works, and…
Moe Raine: kind of looking at things from a second pair of eyes. Oh, maybe we can do this, maybe we can add these rules to automate things more, and we were working with a third-party vendor, Cot Solution, and they kept slapping us with, you know, PCR on every single thing. Now.
Moe Raine: how…
Moe Raine: can we avoid… is there a way to reduce it or minimize that happening? Like, if in the future I'm working on a project when I'm gathering requirements, like.
Moe Raine: Anything in your experience that would be useful?
David Thomson: Yeah, I have a couple of thoughts on that, and this is very relevant to something I've gone through before, …
David Thomson: You know, it's… it's a matter of…
David Thomson: you know, when you think about system replacement, let's say we have an old system or a current system, the current state.
David Thomson: you use it a certain way, and then the new system has new capabilities, new functions, things that maybe it's hard to visualize. You know, I have trouble… when I built the house many, many years ago.
David Thomson: well, I had a house built, I should say. I just couldn't see it. I thought, oh man, this house is gonna be small. I didn't… I couldn't think outside of the blueprint itself, you know? It was hard to think about what that looks like. What I needed to do was go to one that had already been built, the same model, and that helped me kind of see it better. You know, so I…
David Thomson: That said, I think…
David Thomson: If it's at all possible to do, like, a prototype or proof of concept to say, this is, you know, to get the stakeholders thinking about, oh, we can do it this way.
David Thomson: That not always is an easy part, because that in and of itself, especially if you're working with a third-party vendor who's an implementation partner, for example, they're…
David Thomson: They don't… they would rather just go to the implementation phase. They don't want to do a proof-of-concept phase, typically, or that could be very costly. So, as much as possible.
David Thomson: you know, that continuous feedback, particularly through the build process. If you're doing more of an agile approach to the build, you know, bringing your stakeholders in and making sure that they're participating.
David Thomson: That doesn't necessarily mean that… that there won't be new requirements.
David Thomson: But if you can do, like, a prototype phase, and as much as possible, allow them to think outside of the box, you know, don't think so much about your current system. Let's focus on… you know, there could be some core requirements that you have on the current system that get replied to the new system.
David Thomson: But, …
David Thomson: You know, let's think outside of the box, and really help them to understand, what the capabilities of the new system might be.
David Thomson: You know, let's don't think of it… think of the perfect world in this new system, how you would like it, versus being stuck in, you know, we wanted to do this, what it's done for 10 or 15 years, or whatever, in the current system. As much as possible, like I said, a lot of times, I…
David Thomson: At the very least.
David Thomson: bringing them along for feedback, continuous feedback during the build process. You know, hey, tweak that screen, or hey, we want to see that as a drop-down instead of a radio button, or whatever.
David Thomson: That's helpful, but if possible, do a proof of concept, or get them as much involved in thinking about that future state as much as possible.
David Thomson: Does that… does that make sense?
Moe Raine: Yeah, absolutely. Thank you.
David Thomson: Sure.
David Thomson: There's no easy answer for that, I will say.
David Thomson: Especially, as you said, you're dropped in the middle of it, you know? Like, here are the requirements that somebody got for us, you know?
David Thomson: Why didn't those meet… you know, why aren't those relevant to our… the system where they're doing? Well, gee, we had this black box out there that we had no idea how it worked.
David Thomson: You know, there's sometimes that's a slippery slope, but as much as possible, learning about the capabilities of the new system.
David Thomson: And… and maybe getting… getting hands-on as much as possible. UAT is a very valuable
David Thomson: I feel like an iterative UAT user acceptance testing is extremely valuable because
David Thomson: the users… the end users ultimately will be able to give feedback, as they're going through it. They're testing, that didn't work. Oh, we actually wanted to see this, and you can go through and say, okay, here are our top enhancements that we want to see on this. Maybe those can be fit in, you know, before you go live.
David Thomson: maybe those are things that are kind of at the top of your backlog, your product backlog, and say, okay, well, I know it doesn't do this right now, but it will, after we go live, we'll work on these other things. Sometimes that can be helpful as well.
David Thomson: A lot of times, it depends on the approach of the…
David Thomson: of the initiative, whether it's, like, a waterfall implementation, okay, well, it's… everything's in the books already, or it's an agile, well, we're gonna tweak this as we go along, and…
David Thomson: And make it better and better as it goes.
David Thomson: hopefully more and more, initiatives are like that. I'm seeing that over the past few years, more agile approach.
David Thomson: Yeah, great, great question. Thanks for it.
David Thomson: Escalant.
Moe Raine: My pleasure. You know?
David Thomson: Oh yeah, sure.
David Thomson: You buy anything else?
Moe Raine: Can I ask a follow-up question?
David Thomson: Sure.
Moe Raine: Sometime, you know, when it comes to requirement solicitation, some of the stakeholders I work, they're super technical, and then there's a bit of a language barrier involved as well. And when I ask a very specific, targeted questions, the conversation goes off to, like, a tangent, like, completely, and
Moe Raine: …
Moe Raine: I don't know if you had experience… by the way, I live in Toronto, so I don't know if you had similar experiences, and what would be a respectful way to bring them back to the… what the focus is, what the purpose of the session is, and how to, yeah, get it done.
David Thomson: Yeah, that's a great point. You know, I think that goes back to the preparation for elicitation exercise. It's, not always… not always easy to do that, but as much as possible.
David Thomson: You know, particularly if someone who is deeply more technical, you know, kind of prepping them and saying, hey, you're… you're very technical, and we appreciate that, and we like that feedback, but, …
David Thomson: keep in mind, the other stakeholders that will be participating in this exercise may not have your depth of knowledge on this. So, you know, I think it'd just be… I like the idea of just being open and honest and saying, hey, let's try to keep it at an understandable level, and don't get down to the molecular level with how everything works.
David Thomson: sometimes it might need… you might need to go there. They might help to bring you that clarity. I think it's a matter of also, you know, making very clear what the agenda is, what… what's in scope and what's not in scope. You know, we're going to talk about this topic
David Thomson: at this level, maybe, it might be helpful to say, we're not going to go into the minutiae of how, let's say, system-to-system integration. We're not going to go to the level of the JSON values, or whatever, you know, what XML is being transmitted. We're not going to go to that level. We're going to keep it at the very high
David Thomson: object level.
David Thomson: And, and just identify some key characteristics.
David Thomson: As much as you can set those ground rules and say, okay, well.
David Thomson: once we've done this, and everybody's got a… and I think… this is a phrase I like to use a lot… a common understanding of what it is.
David Thomson: Keeping at that, there will be opportunities to dig more into those deeper… deeper dives, maybe with a subset of stakeholders, if not every stakeholder is needed.
David Thomson: But I think establishing those ground rules as much as possible on the front end is a good practice. Doesn't always work, of course. It's hard to keep people from going deep. And a lot of times, these sessions, these workshops.
David Thomson: To be honest, there'll be people in there that just want to show off everything that they know, and like to hear themselves talk.
David Thomson: And so, you might just have to kind of, as facilitator, kind of, let's bring it back up to this level, and let's talk about that. You know, that can be a challenge, but it's definitely… in your role as a facilitator, it's something
David Thomson: you… you might want to… I better… I better work with this person on the front end to make sure that they understand that… what's in scope and what's out of scope, and where we want to keep it level-wise. I think you… I think you can do that, and that… that… that should be helpful.
Moe Raine: Perfect, thank you.
David Thomson: You're welcome.
David Thomson: Well, with no other questions, I want to say it's a real pleasure that
David Thomson: You guys were able to join tonight. Really… …
David Thomson: You know, glad to present this topic.
David Thomson: I think, Sherry, you might know better, we have a recording of this, and also.
David Thomson: If you're interested, there… you can get that credit for this hour that we spent together, if you're interested in the professional development credits with IBA.
David Thomson: So if you're thinking about a certification or whatever, or if you're keeping up your… your certification, …
David Thomson: Definitely, you should hear back from
David Thomson: The… the… our chapter about… about that via an email.
David Thomson: Sometime in the next day or two.
David Thomson: That's very nice.
Sheri Smith: Did you do this?
David Thomson: Yeah, my pleasure.
David Thomson: Thanks, everybody. Have a great rest of the evening.
Sheri Smith: Nope.
Moe Raine: Take care.
David Thomson: Thank you. You too.